# Multi-Gear-Smart-Helmet

A smart helmet is an hour of need in today’s world with  the  alarming  increase  in  the  rate  of  accidents  all  overthe  world  in  the  fields  where  there  is  lack  of  safety  especially in  construction,  firefighting,  mining  and  bike  accidents.  Despitebeing  a  number  of  rules  and  regulations  there  are  no  adequate measures and reliable technological advancement can be readily accepted  to  prevent  the  foreseen.  In  this  project,  a  multi purpose smart  helmet has  been  developed  that  can  suffice  the  needs  of  all  the  above mentioned  categories  of  people  collectively  without  the  need  of separate  devices  using  the  different  modes  in  which  the  helmet can  be  operated.  This  helmet  has  separate  units  which  record the  environmental  parameters  like  temperature,  humidity  and harmful  gas  concentration  to  create  and  analyze  the  working environment  for  the  workers.  It  also  monitors  the  status  of  the helmet whether it is worn by the concerned and also if the person is unconscious or active based on the body movements. It records the live location of the user and also has a unit for alcohol check for  bike  riders.  These  parameters  can  also  be  monitored  using an app that has been developed representing the different modes of working. A 3D model of the smart helmet is specially designed for our prototype which takes care of very finer details related to the sensor, user comfort and protection simultaneously keeping it economical. The main advantage of our helmet is that is combines multiple  use  cases  in  the  form  of  modes  and  this  same  helmet can  be  used  in  various  aspects  combining  all  the  necessary  and safety  features.
